# mutual-aid-caregiving
A group project for CS340 at Oregon State University

In the current economy, the rising cost of living is increasingly incompatible with families raising children or caring for elderly adults. Most households require two incomes to afford living costs, and the costs of daycare and assisted living facilities are out of reach for most families. This is a huge problem that requires major systemic change - in lieu of that, I am reminded of how my mom and other mothers in their apartment complex would trade shifts watching over the kids as a way to collectively share the burden of care-taking.

Mutual aid is an organizational model where there’s a voluntary and collaborative sharing of resources amongst members to meet a collective need. This web application seeks to facilitate the sharing of time as a resource amongst members of a group to collectively care for each other’s families.

Friendly City has 10 active elder- and child-oriented communities in various neighborhoods, apartment buildings, and clubs. Each community contains approximately 10-20 individuals, and 3-5 individuals in each community are a part of multiple communities. A database driven website run by the public library seeks to facilitate the collaborative sharing of resources across individuals in these communities.  This website allows these communities to organize approximately 300 community-based care visits every week, amounting to over 15,000 visits every year. These visits include babysitting and eldercare, making the city even more friendly to families.

This application will consist of **communities**- a group of **neighbors** who trust each other with the task of caring for their families. Neighbors can be a part of multiple communities. *All neighbors have the ability to request care or provide care - this is a pillar of the mutual aid model.* 

A neighbor can request a **visit**, and this visit will have a **visit type**- for now, the two types of visits can either be for childcare or eldercare, but this will be left flexible as to allow this application to expand into other types of care-taking (cleaning, cooking, etc). When a neighbor is initializing their account, they will be able to input the types of visits they can accommodate, and additional parameters such as certifications or other skills. Finally, there will **locations** where the visits can take place. Locations are “owned” by specific neighbors, and will most often be someone’s home.
